
# A brief description of this project 


In this project I have two parts;

## Api tests for - https://petstore.swagger.io/
In the project structure api tests are under 'apitests' folder

* In the api tests I am using supertests - to make http requests, mocha runner - to run the tests, chai assertions and faker library for generating test data. In this test, I am posting a set of data generated by faker library, Finding the same pet with id, updating the same pet with new name and at the end deleting the same pet.

* For api reports I am using mochawesome reports

## UI tests for - https://demo.applitools.com/
In the project structure UI tests are under 'cypress' folder

* In UI tests, I am using cypress-cucumberBDD (Gherkin) to write feature file. In this scenario, user login to the application and confirms the different transaction details and status of the transactions. If the details don't match the test will fail.

* ```3 tests are passing```

* ```1 test Fails - to confirm the assertions are working```

* For UI reports, I am cucumber reports which print out the reports with each step executed. If there is a test failure a screenshot is attached.  

## Clone repo

Clone the repo from here - 

## Install node

Download and install node v14.20.1 - https://nodejs.org/dist/v14.20.1/win-x64/node.exe

Install project with npm

```bash
For UI tests
npm install

For API tests
cd apitest
npm install

```
## Extensions

Install these extensions;

1. Cucumber (Gherkin) Full Support - By Alexander Krechik

2. Material Icon Theme - By Philipp Kief

3. Prettier - By Prettier
 

## Cucumber Installation

```cd apitest```
```npm run test```


## API Reports

To view html reports 

```cd apitests\mochawesome-report```

open the ```mochawesome.html``` file in your choice of browser


## Run Cypress Tests

To run cypress test from VSCode built in Terminal;

Firstly, change the directory to cypress(cd cypress).

Secondly, there are two options to run the tests:

1. In headed chrome browser - "full-regression-headed-chrome"

2. In headless chrome browser - "full-regression-headless-chrome"
 
 
## UI Reports

To view html reports 

```cd cypress\reports\cucumber-html```

open the ```cucumber-report.html``` file in your choice of browser

In case of test failure, view the screenshots here 

```cd cypress\screenshots```

View the video of test run here 

```cd cypress\videos```
